# Exoplanets Exploration
A comparison of bayesian and frequentist statistical methods - Project for the course Bayesian Analysis (DSE)


The exoplanets search represents an intriguing challenge in the context of extrasolar exploration. In this work, the The Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite (TESS) dataset, in which are present both items that are classified as an exoplanet and not, was analysed with different techniques. First, the Bayesian logistic regression was considered (for which different prior distributions were employed) using different R packages, then the Bayesian regression tree was also used. Their results were compared with the corresponding non-Bayesian algorithms. Furthermore, a neural network, implemented with the TensorFlow R package, in which the hyper-parameters were tuned with Bayesian optimisation, was taken into account. For this purpose the R package rBayesianOptimization was considered. A comparison with other optimisation approach, the particle swarm analysis, was performed as implemented in the R package hydroPSO package . The general outcome was that, concerning the classification, the Bayesian techniques provide results compatible with the non-Bayesian ones but with a slightly lower forecast power (in terms of $\phi$ factor, mutual information, and F1). On the other side, the Bayesian optimisation provided a result compatible with the PSO but with a lower computational cost. However, even though, for this dataset, the predictive power of Bayesian methods was found to be equal or lower, its formalism seems to be more suitable for the formalisation of modern physics problems (in particular for quantum mechanics) than the oldest frequentist one. This aspect will be rapidly reviewed at the end of work.
